Hey there everyone.
And welcome to the section
of decorators.
Now initially I thought I'll
keep them as a separate section
or a separate module, but then
I realized, let's combine them,
generators and decorators.
Generators we have already studied.
Now it's time to go
with the decorators.
Now, although they sound a little bit
similar, but they are not like that.
The decorators are simply
a way of decorations.
Now they could be functional
as well, but the primary
agenda is decoration.
Decoration is something that
you do on top of something.
For example, when you buy coffee,
some people actually sprinkles
a little bit of a chocolate
powder or coffee on top of it.
That's decoration of coffee.
Now sometimes it changes the taste
a little bit, sometimes it doesn't.
Sometimes it adds more value to it.
Sometimes it's just
a wrapper around it.
This is the whole point
of having the decorator.
It is just a wrapper
around your function.
And Python gives you
actually some superpower.
So first let's understand this
in the theory part and then
it will be super clear.
Let's just say you have
defined this is my function.
How can a square block be a function?
Give me on that.
This could be super easy.
So let's just say this, orange
block is our function and we have
many such functions and each
function does a different job.
I really don't want
to emphasis on what job.
But they are really
different functions.
So let's just say we have a blue one
and we have a pink one as well.
Now all of them have
their different job.
You don't want to change the behavior
of a function, but for some reason,
I'll just choose one example.
But it could be other ways as well.
You want to simply log that
whenever this function runs.
I just want to log that
whatever the function has run
or some function has run.
So what you can do is you can create
a simple block just like this.
This will be your decorator.
And in this decorator you
can just move this existing
function inside it.
That is it.
Now whatever you are trying to do,
before this function, it
can actually execute whatever
you want to try to execute.
After this, it can also execute.
And if sometimes it happens that you
are actually going ahead and passing
some value inside this function,
you can actually go ahead
and just pass on these values.
So let's just say there are some
params, also known as parameters.
So you go ahead and pass
on these parameters.
I'll just go ahead and click this.
So if you go ahead and pass
on these Parameters.
You can just go ahead and do that.
You pass on these parameters
to this outer function and we are
going to, as it is, pass on this
exact same parameters, whether
the keyword argument or whatever.
We are going to just go ahead
and pass on to this function so
that it executes and behave
exactly like what we want to do.
So as you have noticed,
it's pretty good actually.
And this wrapper function, I can
just go ahead and take this.
That.
Hey, I this wrapper function,
maybe I want to replace it
with something else.
So I don't like this.
I want to use the blue function.
You can just go ahead and use it.
That is it.
That is your decorators.
Exactly like that.
Nothing less, nothing more.
Let me go ahead and walk you
through with some examples so
that you actually truly
understand what decorators is.
We'll do some practice
on that as well.
We'll definitely create a new folder.
Not here for sure.
And let's call this one as 09 and.
And we will call this
one as decorators.
And let's call this one as basics.
Pretty good basics.
Py.
Okay, so how does a decorator works?
Pretty simple.
It's just a function.
So I call this one as my
decorator to exaggerate.
And just make sure that
you understand this.
What it takes as a parameter,
definitely a function.
This func doesn't
really mean function.
It could be Superman,
it could be Hitesh.
But it's just a name as of now.
But.
But we expect that what you'll be
passing in here will be a function.
Remember the diagram.
This whole block is a function.
And this is further a function
that we are passing inside this.
What do we do here?
We simply go ahead and say
that inside this function.
Further, I go ahead and define
a wrapper just like this.
All the decorators are
designed like this.
And the job of this function is
first of all to print something that
I will say before function runs.
We'll have one more which will say
after function runs.
And just in between, whatever
the function I'm accepting as
a params, I'll just execute that.
That is it.
That is your whole thing.
One thing that we also prefer
to do in these kinds of things, we
go ahead and simply say I want
to return, the wrapper as well.
So whatever the wrapper is going
on, that's getting returned.
Now in order to use this
function, this is a very special
function that you're writing
that you are taking a function
inside you and you are just
executing it and returning the
Outer wrapper one.
There is a special way
of how you use it.
You put up an at the rate sign
and then you simply say mydecorator.
That is it.
No parenthesis, nothing is just
a name with the at the rate this
actually says that hey, whatever
is coming up just in the next line
will be wrapped up.
So I'll just go ahead and say def.
Let's just call this one
as greet basic function.
And I go ahead and simply
print this print.
I will say hello from decorators
class from chai code.
There we go.
So let's go ahead and run this.
I'll open up an integrated terminal
just right up here will close
the rest of the ones, even this one.
I'll again start an integrated
terminal and let's
go ahead and run this.
Let's use Python 3.
Python 3 and then the basics 1.
And We forgot to call the method.
We forgot that.
Totally forgot that.
Greet.
Run this.
And We are going to run this.
Now notice here, since we have this
decorator, this says before
the function runs, whatever I want
to do and after the function runs
and believe it or not, that is it.
That is your decorator.
The moment you remove this line
that means hey, I'm not decorating
this function with anything.
Nothing sprinkled on top of it.
There we go.
Basics.
If I go ahead and decorate
it back with my decorator,
it works just like before.
So this is the whole
point of having it.
But there is a problem,
there is a small problem with this.
So if I go ahead and want to print
out something more, let's just
say if I want to print this like
this and I say I want to print
this greet not as a function
execution, but I want to know
this name.
So I have a dunder name for this.
What happens when I try
to go ahead and print this?
Now notice here it says wrapper.
Why wrapper?
Our function name was greet
because technically what we are
returning back is actually a repr.
So this is a common syntax
and common mistake.
Not mistake, but this is a common
thing which is done that hey,
the name of the function changes.
Not only the name, couple
of other metadata about
the function also changes.
By the way, if you know metadata is
about is like data about the data.
For example you have a file,
the file actual content, whichever
the Movie or the MP3, you are
listening, that's actual content.
But is it an MP3?
Is it a wave, is it 5 minute
long, is it 2 minutes
long that all is metadata?
So this is what we have
now Is there a solution for it?
Yes, this is where I first time
introduce you to the third party
or actually built in Python
libraries, to be honest.
So from we have something
known as func tools and from
this we are going to import
something known as wraps.
What does this wrap does?
The whole job of this wraps is
to make sure to place
preserve the metadata.
So if I go and just come up here
and just use at the rate and simply
say wraps just like that.
And by the way, ignore this
Windsurf all this line.
I know this might be bothering
you, but this actually comes
up from my AI plugin.
You totally, totally can ignore it.
I should have said it earlier.
I'll probably make a video, saying
that, hey, please ignore this line.
This is just generated.
It will not appear
in your code editor.
I should say this earlier.
All right, all right.
So once I go ahead and do this,
all I have to do is this is it.
Once you have this wraps again,
the way how you use it,
it's not truly a decorator.
So you use it like this and then
you pass on whatever
the function you're passing.
You just have to pass it here.
This is the syntax.
Always keep this in mind.
And what this small syntax is
going to do is if I run this
program again, notice here
it's preserving the name.
It's not wrap anymore,
it's actually greeting.
That is it.
And trust me, this, is all
about the decorators.
I know people have spent like 30
minutes, 20 minutes, one hour
on the decorators, but there is
nothing more to decorators.
It's just a wrapper function which
takes your function, executes that
and probably adds some more to it.
Probably just the printing statement.
Probably checks more things
in your function.
Inject more values,
extract more values.
There could be hundreds
of things, but the core
foundation is this is it.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in next video.